Paper : A Survey on QoS Ranking in Cloud Computing

Abstract : QoS is an important factor in Cloud Computing. Cloud services are selected based on QoS attributes.
           A survery on QoS Ranking and Selection, their limitations and inferences are given.

Intro :
        Types of Services :
        Software as a Service (gmail)
        Platform as a Service(users application on provided platform)
        Infrastructure as a Service(users own OS)

        QoS is defined by a set of properties including response times, reputation, failure probability, etc.
        Different users can experience different QoS values of the same cloud service, since the internet is unreliable.
QoS Ranking Techinques :
        1.Collaborative filtering : Making predictions for a particular user based on opinions of many users.
                                    Generates high quality recommendations.
        2.Model based recommendations : Finding similarities between items from a set of items.
                                        The quality of the solution is not guarenteed to be good.(limitations)
                                        Computer based recommendations are made on item-to-item.
                                        Provides better recommendations when compared to collaborative filtering.
                                        Faster than other rating based recommendation algorithms.
        3.User collaborative mechanism (for web services):
                                          Predicts QoS values by considering the past user experience.
                                          Need to predict more real world web services and the set of QoS attributes used to predict has to be enhanced.(limitations)
                                          Item based approach yielded better results than user based approach.
        4.An approximate markov chain model :
                                          It helps in obtaining the number of tasks in the system and also gives the complete probability distribution of response time.
                                          Burst request arrivals are not supported(limitations).
                                          Performance evaluation is based on response time and the accuracy of the proposed method was high.
        5.A neighbourhood based collaaborative filtering :
                                          Used for predicting the unknown values in QoS based selection.
        6.The Combinational model and graph model :
                                          This model maximizes an utility function specific to an application.
                                          Performace evaluation is based on four QoS values : response time, cost, availability, and reliability.
                                          Time complexity reduces when hueristics are used.
        7.AHP based ranking mechanism :
                                          Cloud services are ranked and measures the quality.
                                          Non-quantifiable QoS attributes are not used and this mechanism is not compatible for various QoS attributes.
                                          The relative ranking between cloud services is done in a uniform way.
        8.A framework for performance monitoring and analysis tools:
                                          Analysis of many task applications on cloud.
                                          Compute performance of tested clouds is low and this tool is not compatible with large resources(limitations).
                                          Achieves High performance than grid or parallel computing.
        9.AHP hierarchy using SMI architecture
                                          It computes all the QoS attributes proposed by Cloud Service Measurement Index Consortium (CSMIC).0
                                          Cloud performance has higher performance than source environment.
       10.CloudRank Framework
                          It performs component ranking by taking the advantages of service candidates.
                          It aggregates the preference between a pair of components to produce a ranking of components.
       11.QoS Ranking Prediction Framework
                          It performs service ranking by taking the advantages of service candidates.
                          It predicts QoS Ranking directly instead of predicting QoS values.
